This is team leader.
We have confirmation on a
weapon of mass destruction
inside the building.
Let's go.
Priority one is retrieval of that package.
Breach in 3. 2...
Freeze! Hands in the air!
Freeze!
Drop your weapon!
Hawkins. I need backup.
Hawkins!
Why is that beeping?
Nope. That's not it.
Where's the steam vents?
Nazis are always mad about steam vents.
Whoa!
Ah!
Don't mind me. You're obviously busy.
I'm just here for the Opal of Samarrah.
The Opal of... what?
Samarrah. Teutonic knights
recovered it from Jerusalem
during the Third Crusade.
It was stolen...
by the Nazi occult
division and stored here.
Forgotten after the war.
it is still...
Ha!
Locked in the original magical safe.
Which makes sense.
as it is dangerous and valuable.
- Uh. dangerous?
- And valuable.
It summons demons. but
it doesn't control them.
And that is demonologists for you...
careless. homicidal.
Another common pair.
- A pair of...
- Adjectives.
They travel in pairs.
Dangerous. valuable.
Careless. homicidal.
Do try to keep up.
Ah.
I apparently set off a trap.
which I have about...
Three minutes to disarm
before the opal transforms
every corpse in a 100-mile radius
into flesh-eating zombies.
which seems unnecessarily dramatic.
Make it stop.
Well. I'm trying.
This is a very complex alphanumeric code
based on Latin Bible verses.
And it would be a lot easier to concentrate
if someone were to turn off
that beeping nuclear bomb!
How do I defuse this thing?
Of course.
The stations of the cross.
For... The bomb?
No. no. no. no. For the death trap.
The bomb is actually much easier.
Is it a black cylinder or
round like a soccer ball?
Cylinder.
Pop open the side casing.
See that blue wire?
Yes!
Don't touch the blue wire.
Aah! Start with "don't."
Start with "don't"!
So. there are eight stations of the cross.
14.
Only eight in the Bible.
John is the fourth gospel...
condemned to execution.
Book 19. verse 17.
Latin numerals 4-1-9-1-6-1-7.
Hey. hey!
We're 50% less likely to die.
Aaaaah!
We are. anyway.
Final disarm... 2-2-5-6-6.
Yours or mine?
Improbably. both.
2... 2...
5... 5...
6... 6...
6. 6.
Ahh.
Give me the bomb.
3-1.
3-1?
There are 30 rounds in an AK-47 magazine
and one in the chamber.
I heard him fire 31 shots.
I did not hear him reload.
How did you know all that?
I'm the Librarian.
Ohh. my shoulder!
Colonel Baird!
Colonel Baird! You good?
Hello. I must speak to Flynn Careen.
I must speak with the Librarian.
Mr. Careen is actually in Minneapolis
at a library-sciences seminar.
Flynn Careen was not in Minneapolis.
He was in Berlin recovering
the Opal of Samarrah.
It's you. isn't it?
This is Flynn Careen. the Librarian.
- How do you know who I am?
- You won't remember me.
I'm outside. I'm coming in.
How do you know about The Library?
I will explain everything in
greater detail when we meet.
Just tell me where to meet you.
The crown is mine.
All right. stand back.
Stand back!
No. No. sir. I do not need any time off.
My report?
No. I'm not saying he was a Librarian.
He claimed...
a... a month on leave?
What am I gonna do for a month?
Yes. sir.
Thank you. sir.
"You have been selected
to interview for a prestigious position
with the Metropolitan Public Library."
Library?
Librarian.
I'm Colonel Eve Baird. I received... this.
Slipped under my door.
You got the white envelope.
I'm Charlene. And you are...
What? Colonel what? Colonel military?
Colonel police? Air force? What?
NATO counterterrorism unit.
Please. stop touching me.
You are the new guardian.
Oh. Flynn's gonna make a fuss.
He hasn't had a guardian in 10 years.
But even he can't argue
with the white envelope.
What's a guardian?
"What's a guardian?"
Adorable.
All right. Eve Baird. Got that.
We're going down.
- Very far down.
- Oh. those.
It's really a metaphor. not real numbers.
Okay. sign here. here. and here.
Each Librarian has a guardian...
someone who's trained in
combat. tactics. survival.
Sort of the brawn to the Librarian's brain.
But... no. no. Much more than that.
Sort of the. uh. common sense
to their head in the clouds.
Didn't see a lot of threatening situations
in the bookshelves upstairs.
Oh. the Metropolitan Library upstairs.
That's just the entrance to
the real library downstairs.
where we keep all the artifacts and magic
too dangerous to be left out in the world.
There is no such thing as...
as...
As magic.
The Library collects ancient knowledge
and ensures that magic... real magic...
doesn't fall into the wrong hands.
This is...
Th... this is real?
You got the white envelope.
an invitation to join The Library.
which means The Library
needs your expertise.
Welcome to the secret world. Colonel Baird.
Welcome to The Library.
Oh. you're getting sloppy. 'Cal.
Really.
A desvio technique against
a molinello defense?
- I don't think so.
- And meet the Librarian.
Don't! No!
- She's here to help.
- Don't!
Wounds caused by Excalibur never heal.
They're magic.
'Cal. go on patrol. I'll meet you.
What are you doing here?
What is she doing here?
Colonel Eve Baird.
meet Flynn Careen. the Librarian.
We've met. That...
that... that's Excalibur?
You call Excalibur "'Cal"?
We're friends. best friends.
Besties. really.
Why would you send her that?
I don't send the invitations.
The Library does.
The Library sends the invitations.
I believe Colonel Baird has
been chosen to be your guardian.
I don't need a guardian.
You hear that?!
I don't need her! I'm fine!
I think there's been some
sort of misunderstanding.
I'm sorry. Goodbye.
Don't come back.
And don't... tell me what to do!
Oh. you are perfect!
Say hello to Judson for me.
Sayonara. arrivederci. and goodbye.
- I need an answer.
- This is my answer.
Walking away quickly is not an answer.
How about this?
Well. if you won't tell
me what a guardian is.
point me to one of the other Librarians.
Charlene!
There are no other Librarians.
There is only ever one Librarian.
And when he dies. another takes his place.
Good day.
Was he the Librarian before you?
Judson? No.
He was more than that. He was. um...
Well. he found me. He trained me.
He was there for me when my mother...
he died five years ago.
Sorry.
He's with us in spirit.
- That's nice.
- Uh. no.
Uh. literally in spirit.
Nice reflexes. She will
make a... a good guardian.
Hey. buy a guy a drink first.
You're... dead.
It's easier than it looks.
Um... uh. a guardian.
f... for your information.
is the Librarian's partner and bodyguard.
You... you see. a life
of fighting evil cults
and... and monsters...
Librarians tend to die...
Often. sometimes even more than once.
Flynn's survived 10 years.
longer... longer than anyone.
Most of it without a guardian. a... alone.
It's... it's changed him.
Um. this is... this is too much.
Magic is real?
A... a building sent me an envelope?
I... I have a job.
I... I hunt terrorists.
I took an oath to protect
innocent people. to... to...
be a guardian.
N... now you do the same job
but in a world with evils
o... only you can face.
There's only one ever guardian
in... in the whole world. Eve Baird.
and The Library thinks
that it should be you.
Do you mind?
I'm trying to solve a murder here.
Well. you're doing a pretty poor job of it.
- Is that the foyer upstairs?
- It's "foy-eh."
- So. you're saying this Dr. Jonas Sheir...
- It's "Shy-air."
professor of archaeology. five PhDs.
was killed on your doorstep.
and you don't have a single lead?
Oh. I've got lots of leads.
I've got a plethora of possibilities.
a cornucopia of clues.
I just don't see how they all connect.
He was trying to show me this
when he was killed.
It has something to do with this crown.
- What painting is that?
- I don't know.
And that is what is vexing me.
I like that.
Haven't used that word in a while.
Vex. vex. vexatious. vex. vex. vex.
He was here.
How did he know about your secret library?
Also vexing.
It's one of the best-kept
secrets in the world.
He was smart. He was
very. very smart. but...
is it possible you dropped
one of your special glowing
envelopes by mistake?
No. Yes.
No. not dropped... sent. He was smart.
He was very. very smart.
Was he so smart that you
sent him an envelope?!
What are you looking for?
The ledger. the ledger. the ledger.
When the Librarian dies.
The Library doesn't
just send out one letter.
It sends out hundreds.
hundreds to qualified replacements
all over the world.
And it invites them in for an interview.
Many are called. one is chosen.
Precisely.
And Professor Jonas Sheir.
with his five PhDs.
would certainly have been qualified.
We have to sign in.
He said I wouldn't remember him.
He was here.
He was here and he signed in
on the day that I was chosen
to be Librarian instead of him.
And now he's dead.
I know this name.
- Dr. Abraham Thomas.
- Mm.
Professor of physics.
Doctor of medicine. speaks four languages.
I met Dr. Thomas at a NATO
conference on bioweapons.
He died in a car accident last month.
Far Shariad. Tehran University.
Plane crash.
Someone's killing Librarians.
Not all of them.
just these top-ranked top dozen or so.
Dead.
These three top-ranked candidates
don't pop death notices.
They didn't come in for interviews.
Ezekiel Jones?
Oh-ho! You got to be kidding me!
You sent an envelope to Ezekiel Jones?
Well. I guess he never
came in for an interview.
Maybe they got dropped to
the bottom of the kill list.
They could still be alive.
First contact's address is in New York.
That's where I'm going.
Thank you for your help.
See. I really. really work better alone.
What Judson described... a partner...
it's a sound operational structure.
See. I've had partners before.
and they've left or they've gone.
They're gone and they're dead.
Or they're dead and they're gone.
But. if you'll excuse me. right now.
I need to find Cassandra Cillian.
Female. early 20s. collapsed
at school. high fever.
B.P... 140 over 90.
Pulse... 100. Temp... 102.5.
Sudden high fever. sore
joints. nausea. and vomiting.
Sensitivity to light and stiff neck.
Meningitis? Push a
wide-spectrum antibiotic.
- Let's get a lumbar tap.
- Yes. Doctor.
Pardon me. but it's not.
It's not meningitis. It's psittacosis.
The symptoms of psittacosis
and meningococcus are similar...
for example. the sensitivity to light...
but you're ignoring the other
factors. The other factors.
She's wearing a necklace
that has parrot feathers
that she picked up off the ground.
She could have bought that!
Let's go. We're wasting time.
No. It's homemade.
The feathers fade.
In commercial feathers.
they're preserved against
sunlight and ultraviolet light.
- Ultraviolet.
- She's right.
914 different species
of bird in North America.
and this doesn't match... ooh!
That's an African-parrot feather.
You heard the janitor.
Psittacosis. parrot fever.
Let's go!
Radiation.
Ultraviolet radiation. Radiation.
Radiation... the collision
of matter and antimatter.
Paul Dirac mathematically
predicted the existence
of positrons with a mass
of 9.110(-31) Kilograms.
protons with a mass of 1.67...
262178 times negative 27... Kilograms.
Neutrons with a mass of...
Cassandra Cillian?
I'm sorry. It'll stop in a second.
I smell peanuts this time.
That's not bad.
Wow. Auditory and sensory hallucinations
linked to memory retrieval.
You're a synesthete.
Wow. Yes.
Hi.
She has a photographic memory.
Like mine.
Only her brain is cross-wired.
All five senses are linked to her memory.
Unbelievable.
I was about to be super-pissed at you
for assuming I don't
know what a synesthete is.
but I actually don't
Numbers are colors.
Science is musical notes.
When I do math. I smell things.
Mostly breakfast.
You're in a lot of danger.
You need to come with us.
- Are you the police?
- No.
I'm the Librarian.
Go get your coat.
Okay. two left.
but on opposite sides of the world.
If somebody's hunting these people.
you're risking their lives
by not accepting my help.
- You need me.
- Okay.
If I can't get rid of you.
I will make use of you.
So why don't we both take one.
Here... no. actually.
I will take Mr. Jones.
Good luck to you out there.
Get ready for anything.
Define "anything."
Oh. ninjas. possibly.
Ninjas?
In Oklahoma?
Why is that guard holding a dagger?
He's not a guard. He's here to kill you.
Ezekiel Jones.
And I'm assuming you're
not here to kill me.
So. tell you what.
Watch my back for 10 minutes.
and I'll cut you in on 10%.
You... don't I know you?
Yeah. Cairo Museum. You
were that crazy professor
who said the crown jewels
of Amenhotep were cursed.
Librarian. not Professor. but yeah.
I stole those jewels right
out of the main exhibit.
And now you're going to
steal this jeweled dagger.
Oh. No. no. no. It's mine.
I just left it locked in this display case
on my way to work this morning.
Loop the video to avoid
the motion detector is clever.
You're smart enough to be my sidekick.
We'll call you... "Kid Crime."
Burning through the glass
in a room full of infrared sensors...
Less clever.
My escape route's cut off.
Mine's not.
- What do you want. mate?
- Come to New York.
find out why people are trying to kill you.
Sidekick. I'm not your sidekick.
You might be my sidekick.
Let's go! Let's go!
Ride 'em. cowgirl!
Whoo-hoo! Yeah!
Hi.
Good ridin'.
Okay.
- Working the pipeline Sunday?
- Yes. sir. I am.
I got about an hour after church.
so I'm gonna run down
there to that junkyard.
see if they got that '68 gearbox.
She ain't from around here.
No. she is not.
She's from somewhere...
Interesting.
Excuse me.
Hi.
That's a nice tattoo you got there.
Tell you what. cowboy.
Tell me what it means.
and I'll let you buy me a drink.
Well. it looks like you got
some foreign words there.
That I-talian?
"Aestus cruentus adventus est et
ubique carmen pudicitiae submersa est."
"And the blood-dimmed tide is loosed.
and everywhere. the ceremony
of innocence is drowned."
It's Yeats. "the second coming."
It's his poem about the apocalypse.
Tell me... what's a pretty
little thing like you
doing running around with the
end of the world on her arm?
- I'm Lamia.
- Hi.
And you must be Jacob Stone.
I'm not...
whoa. whoa.
Sorry. no.
Hey. whoa. whoa. whoa!
Who are these guys?
Ninjas. possibly?
- In Oklahoma?
- That's what I said.
Not bad for an amateur.
There ain't nothing amateur
about my bar fights. sweetheart.
Oh. I forgot my hat.
This way. this way.
Oh. man. I'm gonna miss that hat.
You mind telling me
what that was all about?
You were targeted
because of your expertise.
My expertise?
Y'all think they're out there
killing oil riggers with ninjas?
- Y'all got another...
- Jacob stone... I.Q. 190.
Accepted to the Sorbonne and Cambridge
for an arts degree...
turned them both down.
Over the past 20 years. under a pseudonym.
you've secretly been writing literature
on European and Native
American art history.
all while working on an oil rig
5 miles from the town where you grew up...
Y'all.
You got to be kidding me.
Not kidding. But we
don't have a lot of time.
So. questions... ask them.
- Is that the Spear of Destiny?
- Yes.
Ark of the covenant?
- Wait. What about Bigfoot and Dracula?
Yes and no.
- Yes on Bigfoot.
- So. vampires aren't real?
Vampires are real. but Dracula is not.
because I killed him.
Is this helping? I don't know that it is.
- What?!
- 10 years ago.
each of you received an envelope
inviting you to apply for a
position here in this library.
but you never showed.
10 years ago. I was in a hospital.
Right. with your tumor.
Um...
Synesthetes rarely have
all five senses involved.
You've got full-on
hallucinations and seizures.
indicative of a frontal-lobe anomaly.
oligodendroglioma.
How big is it?
It's about the size of a grape.
Which I really wish they hadn't told me.
'cause I used to really like grapes.
Are you... not yet.
Someday.
Sooner than I'd like. but not yet.
But I lived long enough
to learn that magic exists.
- So. that's pretty cool.
- Very cool.
Stone. why didn't you show up?
'Cause I already had
a job. family business.
I threw mine out.
It was obviously a mistake.
I steal stuff.
I've been stealing stuff since I was a kid.
I'm not gonna get invited
to work at a library.
It is a magic library.
Eh. great. It doesn't fill my pocket.
I came here to find out
who's trying to kill me.
If magic's real. how come
we don't see it all the time?
Once upon a time.
the world was filled with magic.
It traveled along a power
network called Ley Lines.
See the Ley Lines. see the magic.
Over the centuries.
the magic was drained off
and stored into artifacts.
Like Excalibur.
Exactly. He was one of the most powerful.
He?
The magic continued to fade
as cities were constructed
over the Ley Lines
and technology began to advance.
And. as you can see now.
there's very little magic left.
My job is to make sure that what remains
doesn't fall into the wrong hands.
Like the people who tried
to kill the three of you.
The woman who tried to kill
stone had a snake tattoo.
Serpent brotherhood...
an ancient cult bent on bringing
magic back into the world.
I've fought them before.
What did Professor Sheir find
that pushed the brotherhood to kill him.
- then murder their way down the list?
- Still vexing.
Does it have anything
to do with this painting?
- "Crown of King Arthur"?
- What?!
Crown of King Arthur? You sure?
Yeah.
Crown of King Arthur was forged by Merlin
to give Arthur control over the magic
that he needed to build Camelot.
So the brotherhood wants
to bring magic back.
but they need the crown to control it.
Cannot believe I just said
that with a straight face.
Um. why is bringing magic back bad?
'Cause magic seems pretty cool.
Magic is cool.
till warring nations
drown each other in tidal waves of blood
or use dragons to burn
cities to the ground.
Magic used well can be good.
but a world of wild magic is
full of chaos and suffering.
I will begin by exa...
I will begin by examining
the original painting.
Well. I just said that I remember
that it was called "the
crown of King Arthur."
It's an unknown artist.
I don't know where that thing's at.
Munich museum of history and art.
Oh. I cased it last month for a heist.
- memorized the inventory.
- That's why they were targeted.
You were busy doing whatever Librarians do.
Saving the world... a lot.
And they... the other Librarians...
Not Librarians. I'm the only Librarian.
... Were the people most
likely to find the crown.
The brotherhood was just trying
to wipe out the competition.
- I say we beat them to it.
- Fair enough.
Nobody tries to stab
Ezekiel Jones in the back.
I've never been to Europe. so...
Uh. first of all. no.
Second of all.
let's not refer to ourselves
in the third person.
Europe is overrated. And I work alone.
So. if you'll excuse me...
Goodbye.
Unh-unh. I got an envelope.
The Library invited me to this party.
and I'm taking them to Munich.
Maybe we'll see you
there. Do try to keep up.
So. why are we looking for a Brit's crown
in a German museum?
Hello.
What can you tell us?
Step this way. Step this way. please.
Ladies and gentlemen.
you'll see to the right...
Flynn!
Split up.
Find the painting.
Yes. ma'am.
The Crown of King Arthur. Artist unknown.
Painted in 1146.
Installed as one of the original pieces
in this museum in 1546.
Look at the swords on the knights.
Roman short swords.
Arthur's wearing the equipment
of a Roman legionnaire.
It's the Roman hypothesis.
The theory is that when
the Roman Empire fell.
the Roman legion stationed
in Britain stayed behind.
Camelot as a city.
armored warriors. legionnaires.
It all fits.
Arthur was a Roman.
Yeah.
There's only one problem.
The painting's a fake.
Look.
This color red... it's a dye.
It's called carmine.
It was discovered in like the 1500s.
Painting can't be as early as 1100.
Also odd... it can't be moved.
This frame's anchored into the beam.
You'd have to smash down
this wall to move it.
1011010.
There's a binary code
engraved into the frame
that you can't move.
Who cares? That's not...
the point is. is that this is a...
Oh. no. this type of security
is not used in Europe.
It's the most basic
sequence in all of math.
Okay. okay. Enough. enough! Shh!
It's like listening to the
inside of my own head...
Except louder.
We have a fake painting. Why is it a fake?
Because it's meant as a message. not art.
And it's in a frame that can't be moved.
which means that the frame's location
in this museum is important.
And it has a code in it.
A coordinate code.
leading you... somewhere.
But it requires a key.
some sort of reference point.
Like a fixed point in space.
Like a painting that can't be moved.
The entire museum is the key.
The dimensions of the floors.
the rooms in the museum
as they relate to where the painting is.
That's the key to the code.
Leading where?
Let's find out.
There!
Latin.
"The crown of the Celts lies
70 leagues to the great woods."
And then there's some coordinates.
This means...
The crown of King Arthur is real.
And it's buried in the black forest.
Well. where have you been?
Some very exciting stuff's going on here.
Whoa!
We're close.
We can walk from here.
Okay. I think. first. maybe we should
probably just stop and snack and hydrate.
I packed some sandwiches
and some cucumbers and crackers
and some delicious prosciutto.
People are trying to kill
us. and you brought a picnic.
Hey. We're on an adventure.
traveling down bad roads in a crappy truck.
This sure beats my day job...
Of traveling down bad
roads in a crappy truck.
The serpent brotherhood.
- They have a helicopter.
- Yeah.
Why don't we have a helicopter?
Because we have a Charlene.
who approved a budget for one rental car.
Doesn't matter. doesn't matter.
We still have the advantage.
because all the clues
for the crown's location
will be down here on ground level.
They have a helicopter
and are trained killers.
You and I have very different
definitions of "advantage."
Sir.
Lamia.
centuries of planning depend on you
outrunning one half-mad Librarian.
his part-time bodyguard.
and their amateur sidekicks.
You can understand my frustration.
We had some issues at the museum.
Get the crown. kill whom you must.
But understand... without the crown.
it will take us 100
years to remake the world.
With the crown. we can
do it in a single night.
Good job... by the way.
At the museum.
If you think about it. we
kind of have the same job.
Running around the world.
finding dangerous objects.
Yes.
It's important work.
which is why I need to stay focused.
I get that.
The whole time I'm home.
I'm just thinking about my next job.
Exactly.
I don't need friends and
family cluttering up my life.
Yes. I... I get so sick of my friends...
and... and family.
That's funny.
Hey. um. for what it's worth.
you're not nearly as weird
as I thought you were in Berlin.
Well. I think you are. um...
Henge.
I'm henge. Cool.
A henge!
This is unheard of in
this part of the world.
This is the second clue to
the burial place of the crown.
You solve this. I'll go stall them.
I'm your guardian... for now.
You're not my guardian.
Take Ezekiel with you.
They've already moved off. We
need to draw them back here.
Hey. thief. can you hot-wire a helicopter?
Well. as a matter of fact...
Astrological symbology in Latin.
"When the sun passes through.
upon the fourth day after solstice"...
It's like Stonehenge.
The light only comes
through certain openings.
certain hours. on certain days.
In fact. there's only one day
a year where you can read it.
And that day...
Is not today.
Maybe we can re-create the sun's path.
Well. over several days. months apart.
I could triangulate each position.
I can do that math.
It's gonna take me a while.
It won't take me a while.
Where are we?
In the black forest.
No. She means 84.3 degrees north.
18.5 degrees east.
At solstice. light is 52.5 degrees.
Sun's on the ecliptic...
23.5 degrees off the celestial equator.
Equator. equator.
Solstice degrees add latitude.
then subtract 1 degree a day.
Cassandra?
Yes.
48.5 degrees...
Over that rock. How high is that rock?
About 9 feet.
9 feet. 3 meters.
Cosine... 48.5 degrees.
Times 48.5 degrees.
The shadow ends there.
It's Venus beneath the harvest moon.
Venus' transgression across
the sky at this latitude.
It's on a 15-degree arc.
This part of the world.
the harvest would be a
late-October festival.
October. Stars.
The Orionid meteor shower
from Halley's comet.
- Cassandra?
- No. Don't. I can't stop.
Venus is over this rock
in late October.
Line it up!
"But the two months march past
the rise of spring as the rise of kings."
Vernal equinox.
Sun crosses the equator.
90 degrees.
Latitude plus...
60 degrees.
Rising. It's rising. rising. rising.
Rising into aphelion.
farthest from the sun in summer.
No!
That's funny.
What's going on?
It's summer smells.
It's oranges.
Listen. listen. listen.
All right?
Now. your sensations need a context.
All right. one place
where you remember smelling the oranges.
a strong memory. something
stronger than a smell.
- It's breakfast.
- Okay.
Breakfast. I'm... 12.
All right. Go right there. Lock in on that.
My dad's doing the bills.
and I balanced the checkbook in my head.
He's so proud of me.
They're both so proud of me.
Got it!
That's old iron.
I can cut through it with a welding torch.
I don't suppose you packed
one of those. did you?
Actually. Cassandra did.
In the truck. there's an oxygen
tank in the first-aid kid.
- Would you mind?
- Oh.
The helicopter!
To sustain a flame.
create the thermic lance.
you need a high-energy medium.
Most people would use metal.
like magnesium.
but a high-protein meat. like prosciutto.
stuffed into a cucumber works just as well.
Bacon would be better. but...
Ready?
Cutting tool...
both effective and delicious.
I'll be back.
He just made a cutting
torch out of a picnic lunch.
This is exactly like my day job.
Talented.
You should work for us.
I like the Librarian.
He's weird. but it's interesting.
I'll tell him that when I kill him.
Mind if I cut in?
You brought a crowbar to a sword fight?
I was trained by Excalibur.
I think I'm gonna be okay.
We do not want to be here!
Time to go!
- Stone. how are we doing?
- I'm done!
Congratulations.
You just did something
that no Librarian's been
able to do in 1.000 years.
You found the crown of King Arthur.
Not bad for their first...
Only...
time out.
What did you do on your first time out?
I recovered the spear of destiny
and stopped an
extradimensional pyramid power
from taking over the world.
Now you're just showing off.
Flynn? How did you become a Librarian?
Uh. the previous Librarian... died.
So. if we're the last candidates.
does one of us become
the Librarian if you die?
It's the perimeter alarm.
Installed a new security
system after the last break-in.
How long till they get past the elevators?
Well. it's not just a secret door.
It's an actual magical portal.
There's no way that they can breach it.
unless you disable it from the inside.
Somebody let them in?!
Find the crown.
The crown.
Okay. everybody split up. Find Charlene.
I'm going after the crown.
I'm with you.
I got my own backup!
'Cal. come!
Is that a flying sword?
- Excalibur.
- Of course it is.
Come on. old friend. Can't argue with that.
Let's go.
He's got a flying sword.
Don't worry. Cassandra.
I was hoping for a rematch.
Well. I brought a sword this time.
Let her go. Lamia.
She's no threat to you.
She's not even a Librarian.
Let her go. and I'll
give you back... The...
Crown.
Cassandra.
They said they could save me.
That only magic can save me.
They're the serpent brotherhood.
Serpents lie.
The Library has been breached.
The serpent brotherhood is everywhere.
No one comes into my library
without my permission.
Do it.
The Li... Library's gotten very big.
It's. uh... it's going to take both of us.
I know.
Oh. he'll never save his receipts.
Merlin forged this crown
so that Arthur could
control his weapons of power.
And the greatest of all weapons...
a magic sword...
Excalibur!
'Cal. no!
'Cal. come!
You're powerful.
more than you know...
but not that powerful.
Flynn!
Tell Dulaque we have the key.
We'll open the lock.
and magic will return to the world.
First... kill the Librarian.
Yes. ma'am.
Tell me again how you
don't need a guardi...
- Aah!
- Flynn!
That wound is bad.
Excalibur.
Lamia got the crown. and she
had control over Excalibur.
Let me treat the bleeding.
You can't treat it. It's a magical wound.
- I need. um...
- W... what are you... wait!
We got to go find Cassandra!
No. She's the one who let them in. Aah!
Well. my lack of faith
in humanity is restored.
Yeah. that's better.
That helps the pain.
- The bleeding stopped.
- Slowed. not stopped.
Bathsheba's oil of healing.
If it had been an ordinary wound.
it would have stopped it.
but it's a magical wound.
so it's gonna slow it long enough
so that we can find Charlene.
I... I passed her in the shelves.
She said. uh. something
about meeting her deep in the library.
something about the corridor of doors.
Come on. let's go. Go!
Any artifacts which can
move... prep them for transport.
Yes. ma'am.
Get that one! Let's go!
Did you really have to do that?
You've seen the power
the Librarians are hiding down here.
how much knowledge is locked away
far from the people it can help the most.
So you're telling me
that you're the good guys.
We're going to use The Library's
powers to change the world.
Let's go.
Go. go! Hurry!
Grab it!
How big is this library?
As big as we need it to be.
Oh. no.
That's the countdown clock.
Flynn. what happens when the bell stops?
Charlene. no!
What do you mean The Library
is cut off from the outside world?
Get out! Grab what you can and get out!
You mean like locked doors?
Look around you. girl!
Can anything this big
really just lie underneath
the streets of New York City?
The Library exists in
its own pocket dimension
anchored to our reality here.
And the first Librarian
just cut the anchor chain.
- What now?
- Four bells.
I don't know.
I've never been this deep
in The Library before.
That's three bells.
Charlene... she'll know what to do.
- She's not coming.
- All right. Judson. He's always here!
He's not coming!
Two bells. Pick a door!
What the hell?
Judson?!
Charlene?!
Where are we?
When are we?
It's day. We time-traveled.
Time travel. Ugh!
Time travel's not all
it's cracked up to be.
Hey!
Blood. Mine.
It's crimson.
I need to eat more calcium.
Oof.
I got cell service. American carrier.
Of course. We didn't travel through time.
We traveled through space. We came west.
It's still night in New York.
The sun's still up on the west coast.
GPS coming online.
Latitude would put us exactly... in...
- Oregon.
See? I still got it. Ooh!
We got to get him to a hospital.
Road's this way.
Don't see a hospital. though.
Hi.
Howdy.
Your friend does not look well.
You need a ride?
I'm... I'm Colonel Eve Baird.
Uh. do you mind if we explain in the car?
No need to talk.
I hate to pry into people's business.
- What were you doing out here?
- Waiting.
I do that.
Hang in there. Flynn.
How far to the hospital?
Hospital? Oh. no. no. no. no.
Why would we take him to a hospital?
We're almost there.
Wait. wait. wait. We need a hospital.
He's been stabbed. He's bleeding out.
Hospital won't do him any good.
Wounds caused by Excalibur
don't heal. Magic.
So... Wait a second. How
do you know about Excalibur?
And how do you know about magic? Aah!
I know all about you. Flynn Careen.
I don't understand.
What is this place?
Who are you?
Jenkins. of course.
As far as this place...
Well...
You're in The Library.
Aww.
Say. you wouldn't happen to
have a cold beer. would you?
Uh. no. a... as this is
the Library and not a rodeo
or a hobo camp
or wherever it is people
like you gather in crowds.
Don't... don't... don't...
don't move too much.
What are you stuffing that with? Duct tape?
- Glue?
- Y... yes. actually.
- The bleeding won't stop.
- No. it won't stop.
It's a magical wound from Excalibur.
Oh! God! What... Oh!
Don't touch anything!
This is my workplace. not Judson's.
and I'm doing very important research.
We're in The Library?
Judson!
Charlene?
Where's The Library?
This is the same room.
Hey. I swear this is the same room.
Yes. Of course it is.
The main Library
can only ever be anchored
to one specific place in the world.
What if the Librarian needed
to gain access to The Library's knowledge
but was far from the front door?
This is an interface.
Judson ran The Library
while you were out here in an annex.
Yes. Separate but connected.
Oh.
Name a book.
something you know is
only in the main Library.
Isaac Newton's "principia mathematica."
the unedited version.
Section "F." row 9. shelf aa2.
Right behind the little
shifty-looking fellow.
"The mathematical principles
of natural philosophy
as derived by the wondrous
thinking machines of Atlantis"?
Like I said. the unedited version.
I am afraid.
as Judson has cut the connection
of The Library to the physical world.
this room is all we have.
Access to information
but no way in or out of the main Library.
Ugh. typical Judson. So rash.
Hey. watch your tone when
you speak about Judson.
Well. Judson and I
never agreed on anything.
I mean. I realize that The Library
is best used for research.
not for gallivanting about.
fighting monsters. seducing princesses.
I'm guessing. with that attitude.
that's why you're probably
stuck out here in the annex. huh?
Not at the home office?
Very happy here. It's quiet.
I can focus on my work. not bothered by...
The greatest collection
of magic in the world.
I should have seen it coming.
- Cassandra.
- They had leverage on her.
Should have seen it. I
should have seen all of it.
Why didn't Judson warn me?
Maybe Judson trusted you to
figure it out on your own.
How could I not see that
they were killing Librarians?
People are dead because
I just wasn't good enough.
You're opening your wound.
It doesn't matter.
It's a magical wound.
It won't ever heal.
I'm going to die.
Tell them.
Tell me what?
I can pump him full of fluids.
but if he keeps bleeding...
24 hours.
He's dead in 24 hours.
Cassandra!
So glad you managed to
avoid the insane suicide plan
of the Librarians.
Do you know if the others got out?
Ezekiel and stone?
Well. I dearly hope so.
You see the lengths the
Librarians will go to
to hide the gift of magic from the world?
If you can cure me...
When the key is joined to the lock...
And magic is returned to the world...
we can absolutely cure you.
You have to share it.
You have to help all of the people
that science can't save.
Cassandra. that's why you're here...
to help us bring magic back to the world
and help those who cannot
be helped by other means.
Now...
You best get some rest. hmm?
Why'd you stop me?
New rug.
And even with Excalibur.
there are bound to be
impediments accessing the lock.
Having a Librarian...
even half a Librarian...
may prove useful.
But mostly the rug.
I need Flynn to pull it together.
I... I'm too new to this world.
Well. then you need to
go and pull him together.
You're his guardian.
That means more than
merely keeping him alive.
It means keeping him in one piece.
both mentally and physically.
Didn't do a great job of that.
So he got stabbed.
Librarians get stabbed and shot
and bitten and cursed all the time.
He's gonna die.
Soon.
We're all gonna die soon
if you don't get in there.
Now. look. guardian.
if he fell into a river.
you would reach in and pull him out... Yes?
before he could drown.
Judson was everything to Flynn.
as was Charlene.
who. quite frankly. I always liked better.
To lose them both?
Right now. he is drowning.
Right now.
Go save him.
"Higher dimensional quantum
translocation theory."
By Albert Einstein.
Original edition.
I think I figured out a
way back to The Library.
Is that really where we should be going?
Yeah. We... we've got tools there.
We've got artifacts.
We've got resources that we're gonna need
if we're gonna fight
the serpent brotherhood.
In the few days we've known each other.
I haven't seen you use any
tools or magical equipment
or... or artifacts...
Just your brain.
That's why Judson chose you. right?
Your brain is a weapon
and a tool
and a library all wrapped up into one.
Yeah. but Charlene could still be alive.
Ju... Judson could still...
the right thing to do
is to find The Library.
If that were the right
thing to do. Flynn Careen.
you'd be doing it. not reading about it.
No. No. This is your way of hiding.
I bet that's what you
were like before all this.
You hid in books.
That's the life from
which Judson pulled you.
That's what you were.
Judson and Charlene...
They made you what you are.
Oh.
I'm gonna be dead tomorrow.
So. how would they want
you to spend your last day?
They'd want me to save
the world one more time.
So. tell me. Librarian.
how are you gonna do that?
You...
Are...
Key!
I am "henge" and "key."
She said "key"! She called Excalibur a key.
She didn't say "sword."
She didn't say "weapon."
She said "key." And think about it.
You're the serpent brotherhood.
If you want to bring
magic back into the world.
how are you gonna do
that with just one sword?
Excalibur's pretty powerful.
It's still just a sword.
I mean. Excalibur against a tank. an F-15?
I'm betting on the military.
That's right. It's not an end goal.
It's a key.
Now. what does a key do. Jones?
- Goes in a lock.
- That's right.
And we all remember the legend.
Excalibur was locked in once before.
It had to be pulled free.
You must be feeling better.
You're not making any sense.
The stone. Uh. the legend is...
Arthur pulled Excalibur from the stone.
After it had been charged with magic.
And where is that stone. Stone?
If Arthur was Roman.
it'd be at the biggest
empire settlement in Britain.
Londinium... modern London.
Ha! Look.
There's a big Ley Line
running right underneath it.
Come on. Let's go get that stone.
Whoa. Us too?
Well. they've got the most
powerful weapon in the world.
Judson's gone. Charlene's gone.
The Library's gone. I'm bleeding to death.
So. yeah. working alone
doesn't seem like the best idea right now.
Good. You're leaving. I
can get back to my work.
Jenkins. book us tickets to London.
I'd do it myself. but...
I'm dying.
Hey. Excuse me.
You didn't turn off the glowing globe.
You got...
Hope it's on a timer.
There's a magical stone
out there somewhere.
Got about 12 hours before I'm dead.
and the end of the world will
probably come before that.
Full day ahead.
How do we find the stone?
What we need is a compass.
The stone that Excalibur was pulled from
is almost pure magic.
It should attract any other
magic item in the city.
Let's just take another magic artifact.
rig it into the compass.
Piece of cake. It is a piece of cake.
because I know just the artifact.
This way. please. Step this way.
Now. the imperial state
crown was made in 1937...
The crown jewels?
We are not...
We are not stealing the crown jewels
of the British monarchy.
Of course not.
We're stealing that one.
The star of Marrakesh.
John Dee used it to save the life
of Elizabeth I from magical assassination.
Actually. really funny story...
so. we're not stealing the crown jewels.
We're stealing the priceless artifact
from right next to the crown jewels.
Oh. not "we."
Now I know why The Library chose you.
Vibration detectors on the glass.
Got a pressure plate...
can't tell when the weight changes.
It's actually not too difficult.
Please don't let this be
something too unsavory.
I can't believe I'm doing this.
Really? All you do is push people around.
Oh! Oh! I'm so sorry!
- That was an accident. Are you okay?
- That's the third time this week.
I keep telling you to slow down.
It's not a race. Not a race.
Sorry.
Seriously?
You're gonna put your gum
on a stone worth 7 million Euros?
Omni arcanum directio.
That's pretty...
Where to?
Follow the gem.
Got about five minutes
before the police show up.
Then we can find it in three.
And then?
Then we have to keep them
from putting Excalibur back in the stone.
Why would they want to put
Excalibur back into the stone?
We found the chamber holding
the stone by using sonar.
Decided coming in from
the side was the best bet.
Required drilling and air recycling.
but still better than
coming in from the top.
There are magical traps
at the proper entrance.
plus the human security.
Human security?
You didn't think the location of the stone
was a complete secret. did you?
The royal family's been
hiding it for centuries.
Is that...
- That's Buckingham Palace.
- Good news.
There's a charity event on tonight.
I bet I could forge us some invites.
We just robbed the tower of London.
and now you want us to break
in to Buckingham Palace?
Well. it is more fraud than
it is breaking and entering.
Listen. can you make me a duke?
Sure.
What's next? The Vatican?
The White House?
She'll be back.
Maybe.
Where is Baird?
She's not gonna get in
without an invitation.
Good evening.
Welcome. sir.
And these are your invitations?
Could you wait here?
You know
what I'm thinking?
That your forgeries are crap?
No. I'm thinking I can run faster than you
'cause you've been stabbed.
Oh. here we go.
They're with me.
Orders from the director
of counterterrorism.
Stay sharp.
All right. gentlemen. Welcome.
The royal family must have created access
to get to the stone.
Look for a secret passageway.
something out of the ordinary.
Undercover. Librarian.
Can't hold you up all night.
How about the next five minutes?
All right. look for anything out of place.
We got to find the secret passage.
Well. if we find it. it's
not so secret. then. is it?
They're running standard counterterrorism
along the perimeter
and soft threat assessment on the inside.
which means their
attention's on the V.I.P.s.
And the interior guards
are guarding the doorways
and the corridors.
which begs one question...
why is that guard standing at the wall?
That coat of arms
belonged to John Sheffield.
the Duke of Normandy.
original architect of Buckingham Palace.
- Secret door.
I think I might be fading a
little faster than I thought.
Mr. Dulaque. we cannot thank
you enough for your donation.
Ambassador. I've always said
if you want to change the world.
you can't wait around for
other people to do it for you.
We're running out of time.
Get me through that wall.
The stone of King Arthur.
Bring in the lights and the air hoses.
- Cut through this.
- Yes. ma'am.
Right. New plan.
What is this?
It's high Enochian.
It's a mathematical language
based on ancient Greek and Hebrew.
And you can crack it?
Given time.
Buckingham Palace.
I was really expecting
a better secret door.
I'll write a letter. Let's go.
Nice work. little Librarian.
Palaces have dungeons. right?
- Find a cell. Stick her in it.
- Yes. ma'am.
You said you were gonna
help people. We are.
We're bringing magic back to the world...
the whole world. all at once.
Technology ends. magic
returns. and we control it.
Let's go.
Return to us. oh. ancient world of wonders.
Return and be ours!
It's the old section.
George III's time.
Welcome back.
The sword's rejoined the stone.
Magic's coming back.
Hello. Dolly!
A 1911 Château d'Yquem.
Stole one of these once.
Worth about $100.000.
Not a chance of this
staying in a wine cellar.
I don't care whose wine cellar it is.
Hang on.
They tunneled in from... shh!
They tunneled in from the side.
That's much smarter than what we did.
We have worked long and hard
to achieve what stands
before us today. brothers...
the goal of returning magic to the world.
It is but moments away.
Okay. we got trained killers.
One of them's got a crown that...
that's allowing her to control
the most deadly weapon on Earth.
Ideas. ideas. ideas. ideas.
I have some ideas.
Hey. kid.
Uh. no. thanks. You
already sold us out once.
She had her reasons.
Let's get her out of there.
Okay. what's the big idea?
Okay. Come here.
Come on.
Okay. so. that's the drill
that they cool with ice-water pipes.
That's the air recycler.
And then the electrical wires
for the generator. and then...
I got you. Metal pipes.
Very good plan. Distraction. then action.
This is gonna work. but
it's gonna take all of us.
Stone. your knowledge of mechanics.
You need to reroute that ice-water coolant
into the warm air recycler.
That's gonna give us our cover.
Librarians. Find them!
Yes. ma'am. Come on.
Ezekiel. your hacking.
You got to rewire that generator panel
and give me alternating
current. very strong.
when I yell for it at the
frequency Cassandra gives you.
6-7-1-4.
Eve. you got to keep them distracted
while I get to Lamia.
I hear you. Librarian.
Give me the crown.
And stop this.
Stop this?
Ow!
Hey. what are you doing?!
Watch out!
Magic is returning to the world.
It's flowing out through the Ley Lines.
creeping back into every
corner of this planet.
Magic you control.
whose power I can't let you have.
And how are you going to stop us?
With your little knock-off Librarians?
One doomed by her gift.
one who fled his gift.
one who abuses it?
Or your little soldier girl?
No.
I'm the Librarian.
Librarians win with knowledge.
Librarians win with science.
Librarians win with electromagnets!
'Cal. come!
What's happening?
The magic's gone back into the Earth.
He's dying.
I think we both are.
Listen.
The power that's left
is almost all raw magic.
It can help you.
It can save you.
Flynn.
It's okay.
Judson's gone.
Charlene's gone.
Excalibur's dying.
It's time.
Flynn.
Just touch it to your head.
Oh. No.
No. It was supposed to be for you.
You already have saved me.
It's okay.
It's okay. old friend.
Your airline tickets.
What. that's it?
For you? Yes.
Thank you very much.
I don't think it's fair or safe
to involve you in this life any longer.
A life that would have been ours
had luck broken just a little differently.
Mm... Maybe not.
So back to our lives.
Yep.
Knowing that magic is real.
- knowing the world...
- Is so big.
The world is so big.
I mean. what if we can't just...
Move on?
Well...
- Jenkins.
- Yes.
What about temporal resonance?
We could get a crystal
skull. and I know where to...
Sir. sir. I... I... I've tried everything.
Now. the... the card catalog is
still anchored to this reality.
It can still access the
records of The Library...
books. manuscripts.
But The Library itself
and all of its artifacts
are cut loose from this world.
The... The Library is
adrift in... time and space.
The Library. sir. is lost.
Hello. Flynn.
Judson.
Is The Library...
Intact?
Certainly.
And Charlene?
She's with The Library.
She's tougher than she looks. you know.
And you?
I'm. uh...
My... my time is done.
You're ready to move on.
No.
You're ready.
You know. Judson. I never. um...
I never had a father.
And I never had a son.
Well...
Now we're both liars.
I'm gonna find The Library.
I'm the Librarian. Nothing's impossible.
The serpent brotherhood failed.
but they released an enormous
amount of magic into the world.
You're in charge now.
And... and... and you're
not going to have time to...
to search for The Library.
No.
Not if I try to do it alone.
Flynn... I'll... I'll always be...
Flynn?
I'm the Librarian.
I'm in charge.
Okay.
So it's time I started
making up some new rules.
New plan.
Although I suspect it's the old plan.
I'm just figuring it out.
Open your envelopes.
Our airline tickets?
Just as I suspected.
We have a lot of work to do.
I think that this will be a
perfect base of operations!
We'll have access to the archives.
if not the artifacts.
And Jenkins here will
teach you how to research
and supervise your training as Librarians.
What are you talking about?
We do not train Librarians.
Yes. and isn't that stupid?
We take a highly intelligent.
but totally unsuspecting. individual.
drop them in a world of magic.
and then expect them not to die
before they learn where the toilet is.
That is how it's always been done.
Now that I'm Librarian.
we're not doing it that way anymore.
Meet... The Librarianettes.
No. Meet the Librarians in training.
the L.I.T.s. my little lits.
Yes.
But... but they're not qualified.
Then we'll qualify them.
I'll still handle the big stuff.
They'll handle all the. you know.
slightly less-apocalyptic stuff.
And this will free me up
to find The Library and bring it back.
That is impossible.
Oh. impossible! Pipsy-posh!
Pipsy-posh. Jenkins!
People keep saying that as
if we don't eat the impossible
for breakfast every day.
I'm offering you a life of mystery...
And misery...
Of loneliness...
And adventure.
More than that.
I'm offering you an opportunity
to make a difference...
And save the world every week.
Twice before Friday.
Are you in?
Even her?
Yeah.
She sacrificed her own
life to save Flynn's.
I trust her.
I'll give it a shot.
If we're helping people. sure.
It will provide an opportunity
to steal new things.
I'm in.
Hey. it's your library now.
At least this little part of it.
And don't worry...
I'll be back to check
on you in a few weeks.
Try not to die.
Oh. joy.
We'll need to find them a guardian.
Stone's the only one who can
handle himself in a bar fight.
and I don't think you'll find
too many magical artifacts in dive bars.
I've already found their guardian.
Flynn. no.
With Judson gone. who can you trust?
Well. that's just it.
With Judson gone and The Library gone.
if anything were to happen
to me. they're the future.
I haven't met anybody that I
trust in the last five years.
I trust you...
To protect them.
But I thought you needed a guardian.
The Library chose you to be a guardian.
I think The Library chose you to be...
Their guardian.
And lord knows they're
gonna need protecting.
Way more than I need...
More than I want...
To be traveling the world with you.
Librarian and guardian.
The job's more important than what we want.
Oh. don't say that.
That's the old way.
But. for now. we have to work separately.
Come back alive. Librarian.
I... come back... Yeah.
I... will come back and I'll talk... um...
Sorry. I'm just... I'll call you.
No. I'll text you.
Well. you text me. and
we'll text each other.
It'll be... one of those
thi... Okay. so. yeah. Okay.
Now. um. I know that Flynn
is technically the Librarian
and that I technically
work for The Library...
Vis-à-vis. et cetera.
et cetera. the Librarian.
But I don't...
Really have a choice.
These three will be using
this as a base of operations.
and I'll be supervising their security.
So... make yourself useful
or make yourself gone.
I suppose there's always
the clippings book.
What's a clippings book?
Oh. child of the annoying digital age.
it is how we used to gather
information about news stories.
Each page has clippings
from different sources.
detailing a bizarre mystery.
Well. we really don't need a book
full of old newspaper articles.
Oh. silly Midwestern person.
this clippings book is the
Library's clippings book.
Every night. there is a new page.
new information about a new mystery
happening that very day.
Come. Let's begin.
You will never solve this one.
- synced and corrected by kategreen -
- www.addic7ed.com -